- [Instructor] So now we know HTTP/2,
we know Protocol Buffers.
So as a developer, what do you need to do
in order to develop a gRPC service?
Let's find that out.
Firstly, you write the service definition, using an IDL,
The IDL that we will use throughout this course
is going to be Protocol Buffers.
Once you write out the service contract using Protobufs
then you can generate stubs from that file.
These stubs, as we said earlier can be generated
in a language which is supported
by the Protocol Buffers project.
Out of this stub, you can then implement the server methods.
And once you're done with the business logic
then you can run and start the gRPC server.
Let's say that you did all of this in the Java language.
So now you have a gRPC Java service.
Next, you need to write a client,
that client can also be written with the help of the stubs
that you got generated.
Let's say you did that with the Go language,
so now you have a Go gRPC client and a Java gRPC server.
The client is going to send a protocol buffered request
and the gRPC server in Java is going to respond
with a Protocol Buffer response,
all of this over the HTTP/2 protocol.
You're going to see how to exactly do this
in our subsequent modules.